OK.
So now let's take a look at maps now.
Just as with lists you can have mutable and immutable maps.
So we're going to create a car class similar to what we've used before so we can work with maps so we'll
say class car and we'll give it a string property a model property and a your property.
So now let's create an immutable map.
Now remember that maps one to key and a value.
So we'll save Val immutable map equals map of.
And now we have to provide both a key and a value so we're going to say we want a map.
The key of one to the following car it'll be green Toyota and it will have a year of 2015
and then we want to map the key to to a car that's red.
It's a Ford and it has the year 2016 and we'll add one more car will map the key three to a silver Honda
that has the year 2013.
Now this syntax might look a little weird.
We use two to associate the key with the value.
So as I said the key with the value one will map to the green Toyota the key with the value to will
map to the red Ford and the key with the value 3 will map to the silver Honda.
No I didn't include the type parameters because the compiler can infer them but I'm going to add them
just for clarity and I'll do that occasionally in this section when we're working with maps.
It's redundant and they could be removed.
But for this section I'll occasionally include them it doesn't change the code that's generated under
the covers so I'll add them now.
So I'm going to say that we have an int key and a car value.
OK so let's print the map and also the class so we can see what the class of the instance is that we're
getting from the map of function.
So we'll see a print line and you will map that Java class and print line immutable map.
And let's go ahead and run
and we'll see that we're getting a Javid you till linked Tasche map.
Now if we look at the printout of the map we get the key value and then we're getting the instance reference
because we haven't overridden two string here.
Now I could make this a data class I'm not going to do that because I want it to remain a class for
now.
But if we wanted the nice print out here that gives us all the core values we'd have to overwrite to
string in here and I'm not going to do that for now we'll just leave it as it is but we can see that
we have three cars and key values one two and three.
OK so now let's create a mutable map so I'll say Val mutable math equals.
And this time will say mutable map of and this time will provide a string and a car.
We want the key of John's car and we're going to map that to a car that's red.
It's a Range Rover and it has the year 2010.
And we'll just add one more will say we want to map Jane's car to a car that is blue Hyundai or I'm
not sure how you say that actually and 2012.
So that's our immutable map and let's do the same thing we did for our immutable line will print out
the Java class and we'll print the math itself.
So let's go ahead and run
and you'll see that we also got a link Tasche map for the meatball map.
So in both cases the table map and immutable map we get a linked hash map.
Now the reason for that is that if you're going to create a map using map or mutable map of Cartland
likes to have a linked hash map because link Tasche maps have a predictable iteration order and Cartland
once this predictable order so that you can easily convert from a list to a set to a map.
So that's why it prefers the linked hash map class.
But let's say you don't want to linked hash map you want a hash map.
Well in that case just like when we wanted an array list you ask for a hash map.
So let's change this here to hash map of.
And now let's run again.
And now you'll see that you have a Javid don't you till date hash map.
Now this is a immutable math.
We can add to it so we could say medieval math got put in will this time we'll say let's say Mary's
car.
And Mary has a red Corvette.
From 1965
and you'll see that we don't get any errors.
Now notice the different syntax here you have to provide a comma because the put function is expecting
two arguments.
So you don't use two here if we tried to use two.
We get an error.
So there we go.
So if you are going to use a hash map it's always going to be mutable.
OK so now that we've just had a quick look at maps we can talk about destructuring declarations.
So remember I mentioned a pair class in Cortland we looked at that when we were looking at when we were
trying to create a list from two lists and one of the functions we tried was Ziph and we discovered
that we got a list of pairs.
So let's just briefly revisit this class and you'll understand why we're doing this in a minute.
So let's say we have a vowel pair and we'll give it the pair the integer 10 and the string 10.
So if we want to get at these values and assign each of them to a different variable we can go like
this.
We can say Val first value equals paradox first and we can save Val.
Second value equals Peridot second.
That's not a problem but we can also do the following.
And I'm going to comment these out now stead of doing it like this where we're explicitly doing two
assignments we can save now.
First value second value equals pair.
And what this will do is it will take the Peridot first and assign it to first value and the Peridot
second and assign it to the second value.
What we've done here on this line is called a destructuring declaration.
We've taken an instance and structured it.
We've distributed the public member values to different variables.
First and second are public in the pear class.
So we've taken the public values and we've distributed them into different variables so if we now print
first value and we print second value
and we run
we'll see that we get 10 and 10.
So we have indeed distributed the values of pairs public members into different variables.
Now getting back to maps now let's say we want to iterate over our mutable map while we can do it as
follows.
We can say for entry in mutable map and we can say print the entries key and Corinthians SRI's value
that works in if we run
we'll see that we get John's car.
Actually Mary's car for the key and the car instance reference here John's car and Jane's car.
But if we have her over entry now we'll see there is a.
Not sure if we can see it but there's a light gray line here and that's intelligence kind of prodding
us and saying you know I might have a hint for you.
And if we have her our cursor over it I'll say use a destructuring declaration.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So instead of doing it this way we can do the following.
We can replace entry with key and value and then we can just reference them directly inside.
So here we're doing the same thing we were doing here we're taking public members and we're distributing
them to individual variables and we could call this anything.
I mean we could call this KNTV doesn't you know it doesn't have to be key and value
.
So let's run this now and we'll see the exact same thing we just saw.
And we do.
So once again we've just structured a map entry in this case into its key and its value.
Now how does this happen.
How do the structuring declarations work while you don't get them for free.
Out of the box if you want to be able to structure a class in this way you have to implement what's
called component functions and both the pair class and the map entry class have implemented these functions.
So let's do that for our car class.
Can we use our car class right now in a destructuring declaration.
Well let's give it a shot.
So we'll say we'll create a new car.
So we'll say now car equals car.
It's blue.
We'll have another Corvette.
And at and on we'll say 1959 I don't even know there probably was a Corvette in 1959 but I don't know
much about cars so if there wasn't.
Don't yell at me.
So can we structure this car now.
Can we do something that says like Val color model year equals car and we can't all say we need a component
one function a component to function and a component three function.
So as I said you don't get the destructuring declaration functionality out of the box.
You have to implement what's called the component functions.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's go down to our car class here and let's say actually we're going to use the key we have to use
the keyword operator in front of them.
Now let's say fine component line and we want that to equal color analyst say operator.
One component too.
We want that to equal the model and we want operator one component three to equal the year.
So now if we go up here we'll see that we're not getting an error any more.
So let's run this now.
Actually let's first let's print the color.
I'll put this all into one string color equals color model equals model and the year equals year end
quote.
So let's run now.
We'll see color equals blue model ECOs Corvette and your equals 1959.
So when you use structuring the compiler will call the component function so it's going to start with
component 1.
So the first variable you specified is going to get the result of component 1.
The second variable you specified will get the result of component to the third one will get the result
of component 3 and you can keep going if you want and that's all there is to making a class deconstructive
all.
Now of course the properties have to be public.
So if you had private properties they can't participate in the destructuring.
So now that we've done this for our car class why don't we go back to the para class and take a look
at how Peyre has done it.
So right here ologists right click go to declaration.
And here we are in the class and let's find the component functions and there aren't many.
Here is pair and then here is triple.
So what's going on.
I just said that for this destructuring declaration functionality to work you have to implement the
component and functions.
But the pair class doesn't have these functions so how is it working.
Well let's go back up to the declaration of the class and you'll notice something about this class.
It's a data class.
And when we looked at data classes I said that in addition to the functions like equals and to string
that you get for free they also get what's needed to do the structuring declaration.
So in other words you don't have to explicitly write the component end functions for data classes.
This is another thing that they get for free.
And so that's why we don't see a component one and any component to function in here.
It's a data class so it gets in for free.
So let's go back to our car class and if we were to make this a data class which would make sense for
this class because it's not doing anything we can get rid of these functions.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We'll make it a data class.
And you'll notice as soon as we do that the compiler starts complaining and we're going to get rid of
these and everything's good again.
And our destructuring is still working.
So if we run
everything still works here we've got our printout from here.
So that was just a short detour to show you how destructuring declarations work and how to use them
and I did this detour to show you how you can use them when you are looping through a collection that
has a key and a value.
And of course the good news is data classes get them for free.
Now I'm going to reverse the changes I did here so that you have this example in the source code and
that's it right now for maps.
They're not really that different from Java.
You've seen how you can declare them you've seen how you can loop through them and I'll let you explore
the rest of the map class on your own.
Next we're going to look at sets.